Links with Russia set to expand, envoy says
          
          MOSCOW - Growing cooperation between China and Russia will bolster the development of bilateral relations, Chinese Ambassador to Russia Li Hui said in a recent interview with Xinhua.
&quot;At present, China-Russia relations are at their best in history. Mutual support for major initiatives and development strategies, as well as the two heads of state attending significant events held by each other, are important manifestations of the high-level bilateral relations,&quot; Li said.
President Xi Jinping's attendance at the fourth Eastern Economic Forum from Tuesday to Thursday in Vladivostok, Russia, is the first time the president has participated in the annual event.
&quot;This is a major milestone in the history of China-Russia relations in the new era and will inject new strength and lasting power into the development of the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination,&quot; Li said.
Against the backdrop of anti-globalization and protectionism trends in the world, Xi's presence at the forum shows the world that partnerships of mutual benefit promote regional economic development, he said.
Aimed at establishing a new platform for economic cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region, the Eastern Economic Forum is having a positive effect internationally, especially in Northeast Asia, he said.
Li hopes that China and Russia will use the forum as an opportunity to promote the synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the Eurasian Economic Union, which encompasses countries in central and northern Eurasia, further contributing to regional economic integration.
Economic and trade cooperation between China and Russia has entered a new stage, one featuring rapid growth, positive outcomes and great potential, Li said.
From January to July, bilateral trade between China and Russia increased by 25.8 percent year-on-year to $58.35 billion.
The ambassador said that China and Russia, through their geographical advantages, have greatly boosted regional cooperation across a number of fields in recent years, especially in the Russian Far East.
&quot;The cooperation between China and Russia in developing the Far East has achieved remarkable results and has become a 'business card' for regional cooperation between the two countries,&quot; Li said.
Xinhua
&nbsp;
        