BRI no Marshall Plan or political strategy
          
           
  
 
   Sculptures stand out against the harsh desert background at an outdoor exhibition in Wuwei, Gansu province, on Aug 22, 2018. The project invited artists from home and abroad to create original artworks based on desert-related themes.[Photo/XINHUA] 
  
 
China on Thursday rebutted any comparison between the Belt and Road Initiative and either the Marshall Plan or a geopolitical strategy, emphasizing that the BRI is a global public initiative proposed by China. 
State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi made the remark during his three-day visit to Mongolia, which started on Thursday. 
"China has adhered to the principle of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits since the initiative was proposed," Wang said at a joint news conference with Mongolian Foreign Minister Damdin Tsogtbaatar. 
The initiative aims to explore the potential for more cooperation through dovetailing the development strategies of different countries, in order to realize common growth and prosperity, he said. 
The United States' Marshall Plan helped Europe rebuild after World War II. 
"It is neither a 'Marshall Plan' nor a geopolitical strategy," he said, adding that China is dedicated to constructing high-quality and high-standard projects and focuses on financial sustainability. 
He also said that China is willing to share with other countries its own development opportunities, and welcomes them to take part in the expressway of China's development. 
"The reason that the initiative has won global support and response so quickly is that it keeps up with the current of time and is full of vigor," he added. 
More than 100 countries and international organizations have expressed support for the BRI since it was proposed five years ago. Mongolia was one of the first countries to support the initiative. 
During a meeting with Mongolian President Khaltmaa Battulga on Thursday, Wang said that the joint construction of the Belt and Road has highlighted the broad prospects for deepening China-Mongolia cooperation. 
China is ready to work with Mongolia to enhance interconnectivity, improve peoples' well-being, and boost people-to-people exchanges within the BRI framework, as well as continuously promoting trilateral cooperation among China, Mongolia and Russia, Wang said. 
mojingxi@chinadaily.com.cn
        