State Council official reiterates stance against rhino, tiger parts trade
          
           
  
 
   A Bengal tiger is snapped by a camera trap in the Bardia National Park in Nepal on Dec 27. AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE 
  
 
China has postponed the implementation of rules governing the use of rhinoceros and tiger parts, a senior State Council official said on Monday. 
"The circular should be implemented based on its detailed regulations for implementation. The issuance of the detailed regulations for implementation has been postponed after study," State Council Executive Deputy Secretary-General Ding Xuedong was quoted by Xinhua News Agency as saying in answer to a media question. 
The State Council released a circular on the further control of the use of rhino and tiger parts on Oct 29, saying all sales, purchases, imports and exports of rhinos, tigers and their derivative parts will not be allowed except those approved by the government. 
In "special cases", administrative permission must be obtained for the use of rhino and tiger products related to scientific research, resource investigation, education, lifesaving medical treatments, relics protection, cultural exchanges and law enforcement, it said. 
All rhino and tiger parts in stock or in personal collections must be well documented, according to the circular. Anything that cannot be accounted for will be confiscated. Legitimate sources must be strictly guarded against any loss and should not be traded or used for commercial purposes. 
The circular quickly aroused media attention. 
The Chinese government has not changed its stance on wildlife protection and will not ease its crackdown on illegal trafficking and trade of rhinos and tigers or their byproducts, or other criminal activity, Ding said. 
"The Chinese government has long been dedicated to the cause of wildlife protection and has made achievements recognized by the world," Ding said. "For many years, the Chinese government has been cracking down hard on criminal activities, including the illegal trafficking and trade of rhino horns and tiger bones. It has been active in advancing international exchanges and cooperation and has made substantial progress in the cause of wildlife protection. The Chinese government has been consistent and firm in its stance on wildlife protection." 
Although the implementation has been postponed, the "three strict bans" will continue to be enforced, Ding said, including bans on the import and export of rhinos, tigers and their byproducts; the sale, purchase, transport, carrying or mailing of rhinos, tigers and their byproducts; and the use of rhino horns and tiger bones in medicine. 
Ding reiterated that China had spared no effort in fighting illegal wildlife trade. 
"Relevant departments of the Chinese government will soon continue to organize special crackdown campaigns, with a focus on addressing the illegal trade of rhinos, tigers and their byproducts," Ding said. "Illegal acts will be dealt with severely. Once again, I would like to reiterate that the Chinese government is willing to work with the international community to jointly strive for protecting wildlife and building our harmonious and beautiful planet." 
China Daily - Xinhua
        