Forum consensus: Building a shared future crucial
          
           
  
 
   Yan Zhaozhu (second from left), chairman of the Taihu World Cultural Forum, former Italian prime minister Romano Prodi (third from left), and participants from the film and media industries initiate a high-level dialogue on international film exchanges at the Taihu World Cultural Forum on Friday in Beijing. [Photo by Chen Zebing/China Daily] 
  
 
The consensus of the fifth annual conference of the Taihu World Cultural Forum, with the theme "Dialogues of Cultures: Building a Community of Shared Future for Mankind", was released on Friday in Beijing. 
Zheng Chuanxin, secretary-general of the forum, read the consensus, which was reached with communication and discussions in an equal and in-depth manner about this year's conference theme, at the closing ceremony of the conference. 
The consensus says that building a community of shared future for mankind and an open, inclusive, clean and beautiful world that enjoys lasting peace, universal security and common prosperity is in the fundamental and common interest of peoples of all countries in the world. 
Zheng emphasized that to build a community of shared future for mankind is a grand and urgent mission. "We need to give full play to the power of civilizations and cultures to consistently spread the ideas of peace and to rally the forces of peace to jointly safeguard world peace," he said. 
The consensus calls for adhering to the principles of mutual respect and seeking common ground while reserving differences to build a world free from fear and enjoying universal security and lasting peace, and also adhering to the principles of equality, mutual benefit and win-win cooperation to build a world of common prosperity free from poverty. 
"We must stay away from hegemony, double standards, cold war mentality and cultural discrimination. In cases of conflicts, we need dialogues instead of confrontations, negotiations instead of bullying," Zheng said. 
"We are against the supremacist and imposing manners over others. We must abandon the jungle rule where the strong prey on the weak," said Zheng. "Economic bullying, unilateralism and protectionism first harm others and backfire against the inflicters themselves in the end." 
The consensus also calls for further strengthening international cooperation revolving around the Belt and Road Initiative to bring new momentum for common development. It also proposes that countries should seek common ground while reserving differences and learn from each other to build an open and tolerant world free from isolation. 
Since the grave challenges from climate change pose an increasingly severe threat to humankind's existence, Zheng said, "the only right choice for all countries in the world is to jointly face the challenges and make concerted efforts to get over the difficulties". 
The annual conference, co-hosted by China Daily, consisted of activities such as plenary sessions, concurrent themed forums and dialogues aiming at exploring the theoretical foundation, practical significance and contemporary value of a community with shared future for mankind. 
Around 1,000 politicians, entrepreneurs, scholars and cultural notables from around 40 countries and regions participated in the forum, which was held from Wednesday to Friday.
        