Congratulatory plaque unveiled to mark Ningxia’s 60th anniversary
          
           
  
 
   Wang Yang (left), chairman of 13th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, and Shi Taifeng (right), Party secretary of the Ningxia Hui autonomous region, unveil a congratulatory plaque in Yinchuan, Ningxia, on Wednesday. The words are an inspirational message from President Xi Jinping celebrating the region's 60th anniversary and looking ahead. WANG ZHUANGFEI/CHINA DAILY 
  
 
Wang Yang, chairman of 13th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, unveiled a congratulatory plaque in Yinchuan, capital of Ningxia Hui autonomous region, on Wednesday to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the founding of the region. 
"Build a beautiful new Ningxia and realize the grand Chinese dreams together" are the words on the plaque. It's an inspirational message from President Xi Jinping. The plaque will be displayed at the Ningxia Museum. 
Wang is the head of a 62-member delegation sent by the central government to take part in a series of celebration activities around the region since Wednesday. The delegation received a warm welcome by Ningxia people at the airport when it arrived in Yinchuan on Wednesday morning. 
Ningxia Hui autonomous region, in northwestern China, was founded on Oct 25, 1958, and has a population of 6.82 million. More than 36 percent of its people are from Hui ethnic group and a majority of them are Muslim. 
Although the region is surrounded by deserts on three sides, it has transformed itself into a fertile land. People often refer to the region as a place beyond the Great Wall with scenery of Southern China. 
Vice-Premier Sun Chunlan, who is also the deputy head of the delegation, said the message on the plaque can inspire Ningxia people to take more responsibility in building Ningxia into a region with economic prosperity, ethnic unity, beautiful environment and well-off people. 
Besides the congratulatory plaque, the delegation has also brought practical gifts to Ningxia people from all walks of life, such as teapot sets and thermos cups as well as medical and educational equipment for hospitals and schools. 
The delegation also saw an exhibition in Yinchuan showcasing the historical achievement in 60 years in the afternoon and a gala to celebrate the anniversary in the evening.
        