
          China ready to preside over UN Security Council
        

          
           
  
 
   File Photo:&nbsp;Ma Zhaoxu, China’s permanent representative to the UN. [Photo/IC] 
  
 
As China assumes the presidency of the United Nations Security Council in November, the nation’s ambassador to the UN said China will conduct “major country diplomacy with Chinese characteristics” and fulfill its duties as rotating president. 
China will properly handle various hot issues, effectively address global security challenges and make new contributions to safeguarding world peace and security, said Ma Zhaoxu, China’s permanent representative to the UN, at a briefing to Chinese media in New York on Wednesday. 
Ma said that during November, China will focus on the theme of “strengthening multilateralism and the role of the UN to maintain world peace and security”. 
“There will be two open debates at the Security Council on multilateralism and African peacekeeping operations,” he said. 
The international peace and security situation has become more serious, Ma said. Problems such as prolonged regional conflicts, terrorism and organized crime have become prominent. Safeguarding world peace and stability has a long way to go, he said. 
“In the meantime, unilateralism and protectionism is on the rise, challenging the world order and world governance system,” he noted. “The world needs multilateralism more than ever and needs a stronger United Nations more than ever.” 
It’s under these circumstances that China proposed to hold the open debate on safeguarding world peace and security, strengthening multilateralism and the UN’s role, Ma explained. 
He said it has become a consensus of the international community to support multilateralism and the UN’s role. 
Leaders from more than 100 countries called for support of multilateralism, strengthening the UN’s role and maintaining a rule-based world order during the 73rd UN General Assembly. UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres said multilateralism represents the best way to face the challenges of the future. 
The council also will hold more than 20 meetings to discuss critical issues such as the situations in Iraq, Libya, Syria and Yemen, and peace issue in the Middle East, Ma said. 
“Through the deliberation of these issues, we hope to enhance the understanding of member states and play a role in promoting the political settlement of these issues at the same time,” he said. 
“We will also consider the adoption of multiple resolutions.” 
Outside the UN venue, Ma announced that on behalf of China, he will invite members of the Security Council to visit China, which will feature field trips and dialogues themed on UN peacekeeping operations. 
Ma noted this year is the 40th anniversary of China’s reform and opening-up: “This visit will enhance the understanding of the members of the Security Council on China’s great achievements in the reform and opening-up, which could further promote the parties’ cooperation in the future.” 
The China Disabled Persons Artistic Performance Troupe also will be invited to perform at Lincoln Center. 
“We hope that the performance will inspire everyone to work together to maintain international peace and security,” said Ma. 
Contact the writers at xiaohong@chinadailyusa.com
        