In Guangzhou, people save time by using online govt services
          
           
  
 
   A night view of Guangzhou, Guangdong province, on July 26, 2018. [Photo/VCG] 
  
 
It took Chen Yizhu about a minute to successfully apply for a new ID card using a self-service machine at a nearby community center recently in Guangzhou, Guangdong province. The 21-year-old inserted a bank card and paid 40 yuan ($5.90) after quickly completing application forms on the machine. 
"Now I can simply wait for my new identity card to be mailed to my home within two months," said Chen, who lost her card last month. 
Without the self-service machine, she said, she would have had to make a reservation, go through a lengthy procedure at the public security department, and then return on another day to retrieve her new ID card. 
"It is easier and simpler now," she said. 
Chen is one of many residents who are using mobile apps and self-service machines launched by the Guangdong Department of Public Security to make things easier. 
Li Qingxiong, executive deputy director general of the department, said another 100 services will be online before the end of the year, bringing the total number to 213. 
"Residents will be able to apply and complete procedures for identity cards, household registrations - known as hukou - and passports, as well as handle related matters online or at the self-service machines," Li said. 
The online services - which include exit and entry, fire control, traffic management and driving-related services - will cover all the cities and counties in Guangdong, one of the country's economic powerhouses. 
"It is part of an effort by the Guangdong police to build smart policing that encourages local police to use artificial intelligence, cloud computing, big data and related new and high technologies to better serve residents and fight crime," Li said. 
More than 90 percent of locals have used online services to apply and go through procedures for identity cards and household registration. 
"The public security departments' online services have helped people a lot," said Huang Qichen, a Guangzhou office worker. 
Last month, Huang visited the household registration office only once and quickly transferred her registration to her newly purchased apartment in Yuexiu district after having finished procedures online in advance. 
"Previously, those who wanted to transfer their hukou had to visit the household registration office several times to apply and go through related procedures," Huang said. 
Huang, who previously lived in Guangzhou's Baiyun district, moved to her new home and transferred her hukou to the new apartment in late July. 
zhengcaixiong@chinadaily.com.cn
        