Premier oversees swearing-in of 59 officials
          
           
  
 
   Premier Li Keqiang oversees 59 high-ranking officials swear an oath to the Constitution on Nov 20, 2018. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
Premier Li Keqiang oversaw 59 high-ranking officials swear an oath to the Constitution on Tuesday in the third such ceremony to pledge their compliance with China's fundamental law. 
These officials were appointed to new posts in 40 departments under the State Council from April to October.&nbsp; 
State Councilor and Secretary-General of the State Council Xiao Jie announced the beginning of the ceremony at 11 am, and participants leapt to their feet and sang the national anthem. 
Lu Junhua, deputy secretary-general of the State Council, led the officials in the oath-taking while placing his left hand on a red-covered copy of the Constitution and holding his right hand upward. 
Against the background of the national emblem, these officials swore, "I do swear that I will be loyal to the Constitution, safeguard its authority and perform my statutory duties." 
They said they will be loyal to the motherland and the people, remain earnest in their duties, accept supervision from the people, and work hard to build China into a great modern socialist country that is prosperous and strong, democratic, culturally advanced, harmonious and beautiful. 
After the ceremony, Li said the oath-takers must maintain loyalty to the Constitution, perform their duties in accordance with laws and shoulder their responsibilities with diligence. He called on them to keep clean from any corrupt actions and do their utmost to work for the good of the people, and overcome difficulties for them. 
The premier said officials should unremittingly strive to keep China's social and economic development in a stable and healthy condition. 
In 2015, the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress, China's top legislators, passed and released a legal document that requires all public servants should take the oath and abide by the Constitution. 
In September 2016, the first group of 55 officials in departments under the State Council was present at the first oath-taking ceremony, held by the cabinet in the Zhongnanhai leadership compound. Another 62 officials were sworn-in at the second such ceremony at the compound in July last year.
        