Li's visit to Tajikistan to strengthen cooperation
          
           
  
 
   Premier Li Keqiang and wife, Cheng Hong, are greeted by Tajik Prime Minister Kokhir Rasulzoda on Thursday in Dushanbe for an official visit to Tajikistan. Li will also attend the 17th meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Heads of Government Council. [Photo/Xinhua 
  ] 
  
 
Premier on first leg of 9-day tour including Netherlands, Belgium 
Premier Li Keqiang arrived in Dushanbe, Tajikistan, kicking off his first official visit to the nation in his current position on Thursday. 
He also will attend the 17th meeting of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Heads of Government Council during his four-day visit. 
Li, accompanied by his wife, Cheng Hong, was received with a welcoming ceremony in Tajikistan. 
Political mutual trust has been deepened and cooperation upgraded to a new level since the two countries agreed on a comprehensive strategic partnership in 2017, Li said. He said he expects to exchange views with Tajik leaders on deepening bilateral relations and boosting pragmatic relations in a number of areas to create more benefit to people of both countries. 
Li will meet with Tajikistan President Emomali Rahmon. He also will meet for talks with his Tajik counterpart and the two leaders will witness the launching of several cooperative projects and the signing of a number of cooperative documents. 
With political mutual trust as the cornerstone of China-Tajik relations, the two countries have long firmly supported each other in issues concerning their respective core interests, Li said in a signed article published in a Tajik newspaper on Wednesday. 
Cooperation between China and Tajikistan has achieved fruitful outcomes in recent years in a variety of areas, Li wrote in the article. Both China and Tajikistan are faced with key tasks of economic growth and improving people's lives, he wrote. 
The article said China is willing to align the Belt and Road Initiative with Tajikistan and to achieve shared growth and further promote cooperation in the areas of production capacity, infrastructure and connectivity. 
China is one of Tajikistan's most important trading partners, and in the first seven months of the year, trade turnover between the two countries achieved double-digit growth, Li wrote. During Li's visit, the two nations are set to further strengthen trade, as well as customs services and local cooperation. 
Li said the international arena is undergoing fast development and tremendous changes, and the SCO is playing an increasing prominent role in maintaining stability, boosting economic growth and improving livelihoods. 
The premier said China is willing to implement the outcomes of the 18th SCO summit in Qingdao as well as exchanging views with other countries to expand cooperation. 
Tajikistan is the first stop of Li's nine-day trip abroad, which will also take him to the Netherlands and Belgium.
        