Top concern: happiness of compatriots
          
           
  
 
   President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, attends the opening ceremony of the 10th National Congress of Returned Overseas Chinese and their Relatives in Beijing, capital of China, Aug 29, 2018. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
Returned overseas Chinese asked to back development, safeguard interests 
No matter where they are or how far they have traveled, the safety and happiness of overseas Chinese will always be a top concern for their homeland, according to a message from the Communist Party of China Central Committee on Wednesday. 
The message, released at the opening ceremony of a gathering of returned overseas Chinese, sparked warm applause from participants. 
President Xi Jinping, together with many other leaders, attended the opening ceremony held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. 
The congress was attended by nearly 1,300 returned overseas Chinese and their relatives as well as more than 700 overseas Chinese from more than 110 countries. 
On behalf of the CPC Central Committee, Zhao Leji, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and also secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the CPC Central Committee, released the message at the opening ceremony. 
Xi's remarks on the work of overseas Chinese have provided basic guidelines for the Party's work on overseas Chinese in the new era, Zhao said. 
It is the common mission of all Chinese people, including overseas Chinese, to strive for the goal set at the Party's 19th National Congress: to secure a decisive victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and embark on a journey to fully build a modern socialist China, Zhao said. 
Overseas Chinese are asked to remember the call from the Party and the people, spread China's voice, support the country's development, safeguard national interests, promote Chinese culture and make new contributions to fulfilling national rejuvenation and building a community with a shared future for mankind. 
Returned overseas Chinese and their relatives as well as other overseas Chinese have always remained attuned to the people of the homeland and made positive contributions and showed the spirit of patriotism and hard work, Zhao said. 
Huang Xiaowei, Party secretary of the All-China Women's Federation, delivered a congratulatory speech at the opening ceremony on behalf of a number of people's organizations. 
All people's organizations should guide the people to unite closer around the CPC Central Committee with Xi at the core and strive for fulfillment of the Chinese dream, she said.
        