China embracing world
          
           
  
 
   President Xi Jinping attends a grand gathering celebrating the 40th anniversary of the country’s reform and opening-up at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Tuesday. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
President sums up country’s success over past 40 years, charts major tasks in future at key gathering 
President Xi Jinping reaffirmed China’s commitment to opening-up even more to the world at a grand gathering on Tuesday to mark the 40th anniversary of the country’s reform and opening-up. 
“The practice of reform and opening-up over the past 40 years has shown that openness brings progress, while seclusion leads to backwardness,” Xi said. 
The president pledged to support the building of an open, transparent, inclusive and nondiscriminatory multilateral trading system, facilitate trade and investment, and promote more openness amid ongoing economic globalization. 
The high-profile conference was attended by Xi and the six other members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, as well as Vice-President Wang Qishan. Premier Li Keqiang presided over the meeting. 
Over the past 40 years, China has recorded an average annual GDP growth rate of around 9.5 percent. This contributed over 30 percent to global economic growth and lifted more than 740 million people out of poverty, Xi said, calling the four decades “a glorious process”. 
The country will focus on jointly building the Belt and Road with other nations and establish a new platform for international cooperation while continuing opening-up measures, Xi said. 
China will never seek self-development at the cost of other countries’ interests, nor will it give up its justified interests, Xi said, adding that China’s development will pose no threat to any other nation, and it will never seek hegemony no matter how developed it becomes. 
China’s development provides successful experience and offers bright prospects for other developing countries as they strive for modernization, and it represents China’s great contribution to the progress of human civilization, Xi said. 
During the conference, Xi stressed the Party’s leadership over all work while calling for constantly enhancing and improving Party leadership. 
Reform and opening-up show that Party leadership is the most essential attribute of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and the greatest strength of this system, Xi said. 

        