Xi salutes late leader Liu Shaoqi's high spirit
          
           
  
 
   President Xi Jinping delivers a speech at a symposium at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to commemorate the 120th anniversary of the birth of late leader Liu Shaoqi. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
President Xi Jinping pledged on Friday to learn from the high morality of the late leader Liu Shaoqi to have firm belief in communism and always be loyal to the Party and the people. 
Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remark while delivering a speech at a symposium at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to commemorate the 120th anniversary of Liu's birth. 
Liu, a veteran revolutionary leader, joined the CPC in 1921 and served as Chinese president from 1959 to 1968. He was expelled from the Party in 1968 during the "cultural revolution" (1966-76) and died a year later at the age of 71. 
In 1980, the CPC Central Committee announced the restoration of Liu's reputation and held a solemn memorial meeting in Beijing, where then leader Deng Xiaoping delivered a memorial speech. 
The high-level symposium on Friday was attended by all seven members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. 
The solemn symposium was held to commemorate Liu's immortal contributions to the Party and the people, recall his glorious life of striving for national independence, liberation of the people, national prosperity and people's happiness, and learn from his high spirit, Xi said. 
CPC members, generation by generation, have been encouraged by the firm belief of being dedicated to communism and have worked hard to strive for the goal, Xi said. 
By pushing the great struggle, great project, great cause and great dream in the new historical juncture, the CPC members are inheriting and developing the great career that was strived for by the old revolutionaries, including Liu, Xi said. 
Liu was a great Marxist and a great Proletarian revo-statesman and Proletarian theorist, one of the main leaders of the Party and the country, one of the founders of the state, and an important member of the first generation of the Party's leading group, Xi said. 
In his speech, Xi recalled Liu's lifelong efforts to contribute to the revolution and building of China. Liu's hard work is of great significance to China's approach to fulfilling national rejuvenation, Xi said, adding that Liu will always be a model for CPC members and the people. 
Liu was a glorious model who stayed true to the aspiration and kept loyal to the Party, upheld truth, was brave in shouldering responsibility, diligent in study and kept the people in mind, Xi said.
        