Full text: Progress in human rights over 40 years
          
           
  
 
   Kindergarten children wearing gowns of Doctor Degree run at the Hedong District No 2 Kindergarten in Tianjin, North China, on June 17, 2016. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
Editor's Note: The State Council Information Office of the People's Republic of China issued a white paper titled "Progress in Human Rights over the 40 Years of Reform and Opening Up in China" on Wednesday. Full text below: 
Contents 
Foreword 
I.Firmly Establishing a Governance Principle of Respecting and Protecting Human Rights 
II.Better Protecting the Rights to Subsistence and Development 
III.Fully Developing Human Rights in All Respects 
IV.Ensuring the Rights of Special Groups 
V.Comprehensively Promoting the Rule of Law for Human Rights 
VI.Facilitating the Development of Human Rights in the World 
VII.Active Participation in Global Governance of Human Rights 
VIII.Path of Human Rights Protection Suited to National Conditions 
Conclusion 
Foreword 
2018 marks the 40th anniversary of reform and opening up in China. The Communist Party of China (CPC) has led the people in carrying out this great new revolution in the new era-one that holds the key to the destiny of contemporary China. Reform and opening up has helped to liberate and develop social productive forces. It has opened up a path of socialism with Chinese characteristics, and ushered in a new chapter in the development of human rights. 
Over the four decades, the Chinese people have worked hard as one under the strong and coherent leadership of the CPC. Huge changes have taken place, and living standards have significantly improved. The Chinese nation has risen and become prosperous and strong. 
Over the four decades, the CPC has always prioritized the people's interests, ensuring that reform is conducted for the people and by the people, and that its benefits are shared by the people. It has worked to safeguard the fundamental interests of the overwhelming majority of the people, respect human values and dignity, and promote the well-rounded development of the people. 
Over the four decades, China has showed respect for, protected and promoted human rights in the course of reform and opening up. It has blazed a trail of development in human rights that conforms to the national conditions, and created new experiences and new progress in safeguarding human rights. 
Over the four decades, China has summed up its historical experience, drawn on the achievements of human civilization, combined the universal principles of human rights with the prevailing realities of the country, and generated a series of innovative ideas on human rights. It has brought into being basic rights that center on the people and prioritize their rights to subsistence and development, and proposed that China should follow a path of comprehensive and coordinated human rights development under the rule of law. 
Over the four decades, China has carried out extensive exchanges and cooperation in the field of human rights, earnestly fulfilled its international human rights obligations, fully participated in international human rights affairs, actively promoted reform of the global human rights governance system, worked hard for the building of a global community of shared future, and made a consistent contribution to the international cause of human rights. 

        