All systems go
          
           
  
 
   A matchmaking session for buyers and exhibitors for automobile industries on Aug 30. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
With just one month to go before the start of the China International Import Expo, officials have declared that everything is on track, with registered exhibitors surpassing expectations 
Designed to be a world-class event that is on par with the most renowned exhibitions in the world, the inaugural China International Import Expo will combine country exhibitions, enterprise exhibitions and forums to promote free trade and an open global economy. 
The event, which will be held at the National Exhibition and Convention Center from Nov 5 to 10 in Shanghai, was announced in 2017 by President Xi Jinping, who called it "an important policy statement and action demonstrating China's embracing of greater openness". 
According to the municipal government, people from all walks of life have taken part in preparing for the event over the past year. Preparations have included attracting global exhibitors and investors, promoting communication before the expo, improving the city's business environment, stepping up security measures and enhancing logistics services. 
According to the China International Import Expo Bureau, the registration of companies taking part in the expo's enterprise exhibition was completed at the end of June, with more than 2,800 companies from more than 130 countries and regions signing up as exhibitors. 
In addition, 80 countries and three international organizations have confirmed their participation in the exhibition, which is beyond expectations, the bureau said. 
In terms of purchasers, about 160,000 buyers from more than 80,000 domestic and overseas enterprises had signed up for the expo by Aug 7, exceeding the expected 150,000, the bureau said. 
The expo is considered part of the national initiative to further open China's doors to global goods. 
Shanghai, as the expo's host city, is set to use the event as a chance to form a more efficient and convenient trade environment, to promote free trade and to upgrade China's influence in the international market. 
According to an action plan released by the municipal government in July, city officials included 100 new measures pertaining to the further opening-up of sectors including finance, industrial systems, intellectual property rights protection and imports, as well as the business environment. 
"Entering the new era, Shanghai should shoulder the new missions with which it has been entrusted by the central government," said Shanghai Party Secretary Li Qiang in a meeting concerning the new policies on July 10. "Further opening-up is the path we should take." 
To facilitate customs clearance, Gao Rongkun, director of Shanghai Customs, says that the Customs Department has drawn on the experiences from the 2008 Beijing Olympics and 2010 Shanghai Expo to design measures for the event in November, such as offering a one-stop service for exhibit registration, clearance and supervision. 
Several other measures were published in June, including the expansion of categories of imported exhibits for agricultural and livestock products, and the simplification of export and disposal procedures for exhibits after the expo. 
A concept biofuel vehicle called Biofore from Finland became the first exhibit of the 2018 China International Import Expo. It arrived in Shanghai on Sept 6, following the completion of customs clearance. 
Fang Hui, general manager of the operation department of Shanghai's National Exhibition and Convention Center, said a temporary customs inspection area will be set up in the northern plaza of the center for late arrivals or highly valuable exhibits that are not suitable for inspection at ports. 
On the 100th day before the expo, Shang Yuying, director of the Shanghai Commerce Commission, said preparations had also included organizing matching sessions between exhibitors and purchasers, establishing exhibition and trading platforms to facilitate yearlong trade, upgrading the expo venue, sprucing up the city's infrastructure and recruiting and training volunteers. 
For example, several "matchmaking sessions" for exhibitors and buyers, in areas such as food, high-end manufacturing sector, automotive, health equipment and service, had taken place between June and August to boost communication and connections among participants before the expo. 
"Through these 'matchmaking sessions', we hope to offer sellers and buyers a platform to understand each other, fully grasp business opportunities through communication and build friendly and cooperative win-win relationships," said Liu Fuxue, deputy director of the China International Import Expo Bureau. 
Realizing that the six-day exhibition would be too short a period for exhibitors and buyers from all over the world to learn and take advantage of business opportunities in China, the city's commerce commission has also set up exhibition and transaction platforms that will be available year-round. These platforms are aimed at providing a channel for foreign products, services and technology to enter the Chinese market. 
The municipality has also set up a one-stop, year-round platform that will feature import exhibits, including those from the six-day expo. 
"These platforms will also help promote the sustainable development of the expo and enhance Shanghai's brand as an international shopping destination," said Shang. 
In terms of infrastructure, the National Exhibition and Convention Center had completed upgrading of its power, drainage, fire control, communication, wiring and parking facilities in preparation for the expo by the end of September, according to Huang Yongping, director of the Shanghai Housing and Urban-Rural Development Commission. 
Most of the major projects have been completed, such as the construction of the various expo venues, the country pavilions and the outdoor spaces, Huang adds. 
Transportation facilities surrounding the expo venue have been upgraded and fine-tuned to ensure smooth traffic during the event, says Xie Feng, director of the municipal transportation commission. 
All the 26 construction tasks within the Hongqiao Business District were completed by the end of September, including the extension of an overpass connecting the area with the expo venue. The overpass will make it easier for exhibitors to travel to the Hongqiao Railway Station and Hongqiao International Airport. 
The city is also recruiting and training more than 5,000 volunteers to work during the expo. 
Wu Bin, deputy Party chief of the Shanghai Committee of the China Communist Youth League, says these volunteers will begin their duties in mid-October. 
Xing Yi and Shi Jing contributed to this story. 
linshujuan@chinadaily.com.cn 
&nbsp; 
 
  
 
&nbsp; 
&nbsp;
        