Two senior officials expelled for bribery; another two formally arrested
          
           
  
 
   A file photo of Ai Wenli. [Photo provided to China Daily] 
  
 
Two former provincial-level officials have been expelled from the Communist Party of China for multiple offenses, including bribery, according to CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection on Friday. 
Ai Wenli, 63, former senior political adviser in North China's Hebei province, was expelled from the Party for violating Party disciplines and laws, the CCDI said in a statement released on Friday. 
According to the CCDI, anti-graft officers will confiscate his ill-gotten assets and will transfer evidence to the prosecuting department for charges, with a proposed lenient punishment. 
The CCDI said he violated Party rules and refused to report his personal matters to the Party organization, and was found to have accepted cash and gifts from others. 
Moreover, he was accused of taking advantage of his position to gain benefits for other individuals or enterprises, and took huge bribes from them either paid in cash or property. 
"As a senior Party official, he has lost the ideal and faith and was willing to be surrounded by bribers," according to the statement. 
In August, he actively surrendered himself to anti-graft officials, becoming the first vice-ministerial level official to give himself up 
 
  
 
   A file photo of Bai Xiangqun. [Photo provided to China Daily] 
  
 
On Friday, the CCDI also said in a statement that Bai Xiangqun, 55, former vice-chairman of the government of the Inner Mongolia autonomous region was expelled from the Party and removed from public office over serious violations of discipline and laws. 
In April, Bai was placed under investigation for violating Party disciplines and laws, according to the CCDI. 
Bai was found to have violated political discipline, refused to cooperate in the investigation and engaged in superstitious activities. 
On Friday, the CCDI released a video of Bai showing his remorse. 
"I hope other Party members will draw lessons from my case and remember: When you are an official, you can't make a fortune; or if you want to make fortune, you can't be an official." 
Separately on Friday, the Supreme People's Procuratorate formally arrested Wang Xiaoguang, former vice-governor of Guizhou province and Zhang Shaochun, China's former vice-minister of finance, on suspicions of corruption and bribery. 
Xinhua contributed to this story.
        