Xi calls on women to help realize rejuvenation dream
          
           
  
 
   Xi Jinping, Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji and Han Zheng attend the opening of the 12th National Women's Congress (NWC) in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 30, 2018. [Photo/Xinhua] 
  
 
Chinese women are being urged to have firm ideals and contribute to fulfilling the dream of national rejuvenation at a congress attended by President Xi Jinping on Tuesday. 
Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, attended the opening ceremony of the 12th National Women's Congress at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. 
Xi's important speeches and remarks on the contributions of the nation's women have provided fundamental guidance for the works of women's federations, said Zhao Leji, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. 
To achieve the goals set at the Party's 19th National Congress, all Chinese people need to make joint efforts, Zhao said in his speech at the opening ceremony. 
On behalf of the CPC Central Committee, Zhao called on the country's women to practice Xi Jinping Thought on Socialism with Chinese Characteristics for a New Era, make great achievements in the new era, and be courageous in pursuing their dreams. 
The country's women's federations of all levels have shouldered the political responsibility of following the Party's leadership and made contributions to foster stronger public support for the Party's governance, he said. 
The meeting was also attended by other leaders of the CPC and the State including Li Keqiang, Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning and Han Zheng, all of whom are members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. 
A total of 1,637 deputies to the congress from all walks of life and 79 specially invited deputies from Hong Kong and Macao attended the opening ceremony of the congress. 

        