Xi praises forum's role in progress
          
           
  
 
   Taihu World Cultural Forum attendees head for the annual conference’s opening ceremony in Beijing on Thursday after taking a group photo. [Photo by Zou Hong / CHINA DAILY] 
  
 
President writes in letter that international cultural gathering also promotes world peace, development 
President Xi Jinping sent a congratulatory letter to the fifth annual conference of the Taihu World Cultural Forum, which opened on Thursday in Beijing, saying that cultural exchanges and mutual learning are an important driving force for human progress and world peace and development. 
Wang Chen, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and vice-chairman of the National People’s Congress Standing Committee, read Xi’s letter at the opening ceremony of the forum, themed “Dialogues of Cultures: Building a Community of Shared Future for Mankind”, at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse. 
Wang said the annual forum is aimed at further exploring the theoretical backing and path to building a community of a shared future for mankind, and finding solutions to the problems the world is facing. 
He said participants in the forum would exchange their ideas in a candid way and provide thoughts and driving forces for the common prosperity of the world. 
Azerbaijani President Ilham Aliyev sent a congratulatory letter saying that given the circumstances of a volatile world, countries should press for cooperation using the guidance of building the community of a shared future for mankind proposed by Xi. 
 
  
 
   Vice-chairman of the Standing Committee of China's National People's Congress Wang Chen meets with Vice Prime Minister of Azerbaijan Ali Ahmedov on the sidelines of the fifth conference of the Taihu World Cultural Forum in Beijing, Oct 18, 2018. [Photo by Feng Yongbin/chinadaily.com.cn] 
  
 
He said countries connected by the ancient Silk Road will make their contribution to intercultural dialogue. 
“In a world where openness is increasingly threatened, we need to keep the door of dialogue among civilizations open,” said former Italian prime minister and honorary president of the forum Romano Prodi. 
“I’m concerned that trade and economic disputes may negatively influence cultural and political cooperation,” Prodi added. He called the Belt and Road Initiative a positive development with potential for far-reaching effects. 
Yan Zhaozhu, chairman of the forum, said uncertainty in the world situation has increased with the growth of unilateralism and protectionism. There should be unwavering confidence in building the community of a shared future for mankind, Yan said. 
The key to the success of such a community is cooperation, he said. “Openness and inclusiveness are the base, mutual respect is the precondition and mutual benefit and win-win results is the impetus.” 
 
  
 
   President of Thaihu World Cultural Forum Yan Zhaozhu speaks at the opening ceremony of the fifth conference of the Taihu World Cultural Forum in Beijing, Oct 18, 2018. [Photo by Zou Hong/chinadaily.com.cn] 
  
 
“Global cooperation is needed to solve problems such as climate change, terrorism, nuclear proliferation, ecological disasters and major contagious diseases,” Yan said. “Economic globalization also enhances global cooperation, which surpasses the boundaries of social systems and values.” 
People’s minds should go with the current of the times, and never fall back to the old ideas of zero-sum games and winner takes all, he said. Every country should have the right to choose a development mode and path that suits them the best. 
Zhang Meiying, vice-chairwoman of the 11th National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, and honorary chairwoman of Taihu World Cultural Forum, called the international rescue of the Thai youth soccer team this year an example of the importance of building a community of a shared future for mankind. 
“It is a manifestation of such a community,” she said. “A mission impossible was completed because the common value of respect for human life brought together the force of people of countries with different social systems and cultures. 
“Building the community of a shared future for mankind is the common ideal and exploration of all that is human, and it is the foundation of human love, which can be achieved.” 

        