Chinese premier meets new foreign ambassadors ahead of National Day
          
           
  
 
   To celebrate China's National Day, local villagers make a huge national flag with peppers, corn, soybeans and other crops in Linying county, Central China's Henan province, on Sept 29, 2018. [Photo/IC] 
  
 
BEIJING - China is willing to enhance mutually beneficial cooperation with all parties in its further opening-up, Premier Li Keqiang said when meeting with 29 new ambassadors to China Friday, ahead of the country's National Day. 
Li welcomed the ambassadors and expressed his sincere greetings and good wishes to the leaders and people of the countries and regions. 
He told the ambassadors that China is committed to enhancing bilateral political mutual trust, deepening pragmatic cooperation and strengthening coordination and cooperation in international and regional affairs. 
He reaffirmed China's adherence to the path of peaceful development and unswerving backing of economic globalization. 
This year marks the 40th anniversary of the reform and opening up of China, the largest developing country in the world, Li said, adding that China is willing to achieve common development with all parties in its further opening-up. 
In face of rising protectionism and unilateralism, China stands ready to work with all parties to continuously consolidate partnerships, align respective strategies for development, promote the Belt and Road construction and cooperation, jointly defend multilateralism and free trade, build an open global economy, and inject new energy to promote stable and balanced development of the world economy, he said. 
The ambassadors expressed the expectation that China's further reform and opening up will bring more development opportunities to the world, as well as their willingness to facilitate cooperation for win-win results. 
After the meeting, the ambassadors attended a reception marking the 69th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China as guests of the Chinese premier. 
China's National Day falls on Oct 1.
        