
          Greater trust with Japan urged
        

          
           
  
 
   Premier Li Keqiang and Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe tour an exhibition about bilateral economic and trade cooperation progress in Beijing on Thursday. XU JINGXING / CHINA DAILY 
  
 
China and Japan should step up mutual political trust and see bilateral relations as a partnership rather than representing any threat, Premier Li Keqiang said on Thursday. 
Li's remark came as he and visiting Japanese Prime Minister Shinzo Abe each delivered a speech at a reception to commemorate the 40th anniversary of the Treaty of China-Japan Peace and Friendship. 
Abe arrived in Beijing on Thursday to start his three-day official visit to China, which is the first official trip to China by a Japanese prime minister in seven years. 
Li said the treaty enshrined the joint desire of the two countries to live in perpetual peace and friendship, and includes the concept that Japan should deeply reflect on its wartime acts and its adherence to the one-China policy. 
The treaty, along with the other three key political documents, represents what is necessary for the healthy development of bilateral relations, he said. 
The two sides should follow the general direction of peace, friendship and cooperation, and jointly work toward more full-fledged, stable, pragmatic and enterprising bilateral relations, he said. 
It is important for the two sides to constructively manage disputes and differences, and create a better environment for the stable and healthy development of bilateral relations, he added. 
Li said that China is in the course of further expanding its reform and opening-up, which will create greater space and more opportunities for the two countries to conduct cooperation at higher levels. 
The two nations should steadily advance pragmatic cooperation, give play to complementary strengths and jointly explore third-party markets, the premier said. 
China welcomes Japan to actively take part in the building of the Belt and Road and bring mutually beneficial cooperation to even more platforms, he said. 
As major countries in Asia and leading economies in the world, the two nations should jointly safeguard multilateralism, free trade and regional peace, as well as promote regional development and prosperity, Li said. 
Li also voiced support for intensified people-to-people exchanges between the two countries and expanded cooperation in culture, education and sports at local levels. 
China supports promoting exchanges between the two peoples, especially among the young, to cement public opinion in favor of friendship, the premier added. 
Abe said in his speech that Japan and China both played irreplaceable roles in Asia's economic growth and around the world. 
The Japanese leader said he hopes the two nations can work together to bolster the lasting development of bilateral friendship and cooperation.
        