Nationwide campaign launched to fight formalism, bureaucracy
          
          The top discipline watchdog of the Communist Party of China has launched a nationwide campaign to fight formalism and bureaucracy to ensure tasks are carried out efficiently and effectively at all levels.
The CPC Central Commission for Discipline Inspection has issued a circular requiring that Party organizations across the country implement the instructions of Xi Jinping, general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and president, to better fight formalism and bureaucracy, according to a release on the commission's website on Tuesday.
The circular listed typical problems in 12 major aspects, such as being indifferent or turning a blind eye to the suffering or complaints of the public. The transmitting or carrying out the central leadership's requirements by shouting slogans or issuing documents instead of doing practical work is also clearly banned.
Those who do not take on their responsibilities, make blind decisions, use fake materials or try to cover up problems will also be punished, according to the circular.
Combating formalism and bureaucracy is a priority in areas such as the "three tough battles" - preventing financial risks, reducing poverty and tackling pollution - as well as in politics, publicity and food and drug security, the circular said. Leading officials at all levels are asked to take the lead in the campaign.
The CPC has intensified efforts to curb formalism, bureaucracy, hedonism and extravagance since the 18th CPC National Congress in late 2012. The fight against undesirable work styles should not be stopped, Xi said after the 19th CPC National Congress in October. He released the instruction in December as the Xinhua News Agency published an article about new forms of misconduct.
In the instruction, Xi warned about the intractability and recurrence of undesirable workstyles - formalities for formalities' sake, bureaucratism, hedonism and extravagance.
Yang Weidong, a law professor at the Chinese Academy of Governance, said the latest campaign deployed by the central discipline watchdog is timely, "and this time it's a little bit different, as the targets are more specific and accurate".
Some Party officials still give assignments or pass on requirements from authorities at a higher level by merely holding meetings or reading documents, Yang said. "It's a waste of time and must be rectified," he said.
Yang said those issues listed in the circular are major problems in many Party organizations and have triggered many public complaints.
"I'm glad that the commission also pays attention to whether the public is offered better services," he said. "What the Party works for is to serve the people and provide them with more convenience in daily life."
It has become easier for residents to contact officials, "but their difficulties remain unsolved in many cases due to empty talk by officials," Yang said, adding that he hopes disciplinary authorities focus on the issues and take concrete measures.
        