Former legislator admits bribery
          
          Zhang Jiehui, formerly a senior legislator in North China's Hebei province, stood trial at a court in Shanxi province on Thursday, charged with taking bribes valued at 126 million yuan ($18.2 million). 
Zhang, 61, former vice-chairman of the Standing Committee of the Hebei Provincial People's Congress, showed repentance for his crime and pleaded guilty at the hearing, Taiyuan Intermediate People's Court said. Its verdict will be handed down at a later date. 
 
According to the indictment, Zhang took advantage of his job to gain benefits for other individuals and enterprises in business development, obtaining bank loans and enterprise acquisition, as well as project land approval and job promotion, in return for bribes paid in cash or gifts. 
Between 2001 and 2017, he mainly served as mayor of Anshan, Liaoning province; Party chief of Anshan; vice-governor of Hebei and vice-chairman of the Standing Committee of the Hebei Provincial People's Congress. 
"During the court hearing, we notified him of his legal rights and carefully listened to his lawyer's defense statement to protect his legitimate rights," the court said in a statement. 
In December, the Communist Party of China's Central Commission for Discipline Inspection launched an investigation of Zhang for "serious violations of Party disciplines". 
He was expelled from the Party in February and dismissed from public office, the CCDI said. 
It said he violated organizational rules in securing his promotion and sought benefits in the selection of officials. 
He also invested in publicly listed companies in contravention of rules and traded power and money for sex. 
In a separate development, Zhang Jie, 57, chairman of China Hi-Tech Group Corporation, has been placed under investigation by the CCDI and the National Supervisory Commission for violating Party disciplines and laws, the CCDI said on Thursday. 
He became chairman of China Hi-Tech, a leading State-owned textile company, in 2008. 
Zhang Jie and Zhang Jiehui are not related.
        