Ex-Jilin discipline official probed for graft
          
           
  
 
   Qiu Daming 
  
 
Qiu Daming, former deputy head of the Jilin provincial commission for discipline inspection, is under investigation for alleged graft, according to the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection on Tuesday. 
Qiu, 56, also former deputy head of the Jilin provincial supervisory commission, is being investigated by the CCDI and National Supervisory Commission for "serious violations of Party discipline", a euphemism for corruption. 
From 2001 to 2018, Qui served as deputy director of the Jilin provincial audit department; head of Liaoyuan city's commission for discipline inspection; director of the Jilin provincial supervision department; and deputy head of the Jilin provincial commission for discipline inspection and the provincial supervisory commission. 
Qiu was the second high-ranking official to be investigated in Jilin in the past two weeks. 
Late last month, Wang Erzhi, former vice-chairman of the Jilin Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, was placed under investigation by the CCDI and National Supervisory Commission for "serious violation of Party discipline" and alleged graft. 
Bayanqolu, secretary of Jilin Party Committee, recently said that all Party members in Jilin must bear in mind the Party's trust and the people's expectations. 
"No matter what position you hold, you must have a strong sense of responsibility and fully perform your duty to serve the public." 
"At the moment, Jilin is in a critical period of revitalization and development, and the tasks in various fields are arduous, so we don't have a shortcut and need to do practical work," he said. "No matter who is involved in malpractice or corruption, we will resolutely investigate and punish them," Bayanqolu said. 
Since late 2012, when China's new leadership was elected, anti-corruption has been a top priority. The country has conducted a sweeping drive against both "tigers and flies", referring to high-ranking and low-ranking officials. 
To date, more than 300 former senior officials have been investigated by the anti-graft body for alleged graft, including Zhou Yongkang, former security chief, who was sentenced to life imprisonment in June 2015 for bribery, abuse of power and disclosing State secrets.
        